High in this video which is going to jump straight into lambda expressions.
So let's go ahead and create first a regular function or at least what we consider a regular function
using that death statement.
So we use def.
Then we have the name for the function then we specify any parameters if we have any.
So in this case let's say I'm going to do a single parameter.
I'm going to name it X and the function is simply going to return x squared.
So this is a function for look at the type of rescue.
It's a function.
If we just go ahead and print out ask here is what Python tells us it is a function.
It's in the main module and it's named Eskew.
Now we can also define function using a lambda expression.
So let's do the same thing.
Let's say we have lambda.
So that's the keyword right.
Here we use def.
Now we're using lambda.
The difference is that with Def we specify the name of the function and then the parameters in parentheses
for lambda.
There is no name for the function and therefore we specify the parameters without the parentheses.
But the same rules that apply to specifying parameters defaults the star aren't all that stuff works
just as well.
Lamda The only difference is that there is no name.
So let's see what happens so let's say we take a single parameter and we'll return x squared.
Now there's a limitation as well on what you can do in the body of this function.
When you use a lambda expression it has to be an expression because that expression is what will get
evaluated and returned.
Right.
So it's like having an implicit return.
You can return you know a bunch of statements or comments.
Right.
You need to return an expression.
So same thing here.
You can't put in you know common.
You can't put in notations you can't have multiple lines of code.
So lambdas are meant to be very very simple functions essentially write things that can be done this
way.
All right so that's the lambda.
Let's go ahead and run this.
And let's see what Python does.
Well it created this function and so it created the function in memory at some memory address and it
assigned it.
So here we go.
All right so it's a function again same as before it's in the main module that's where we're running
the notebook.
But notice here it just has the generic lambda name.
If we're to do another lambda expression lambda r y o say X as well.
Well with 2 x comma y so I'd say we do two parameters right.
And we're going to take X plus Why.
Well again you see we get the exact same thing function main lambda.
There is no name.
So it just sticks in this word you know lambda to tell us Hey this is a lambda expression it's an anonymous
function.
There is no name on like Eskew that had a name.
So what can we do with lambdas.
Well we can assign them to a variable right.
We can assign a function to a variable.
For example we can say F is equal to as Q..
So now if we look at the ID of F and the idea of Eskew we know that they're going to be the same there
pointing to the same object.
That means that f is also a function so it's callable.
So callable means we can call it we call it using these round parentheses.
And so we can pass in three and we get nine.
That's the same thing as doing Eskew of three that's nine.
Right so this is how we could assign a function to another variable.
Now the name of the function is still if we say F it is still the name of the function is.
S Q It's not f f is just a variable that points to the memory location that contains that function object.
So we can do the same thing with anonymous functions with these lambdas.
We can say F is equal to lambda X and returns x squared.
So now we can look at f itself.
Well F is just that lambda expression.
Right.
It is that lambda.
It is that function that anonymous function.
And so f is callable and we can say F of 3 for example that will read to a 9.
We can do something similar.
Let's say we have a lambda that takes two parameters X and Y.
And in this case I just want to show you we can set also the default for y.
So we'll do that and then we'll just return x plus y.
OK.
So that's what we want.
To retort.
So let's go ahead and see what G is.
So g is just some function right but it's an anonymous function as we can see here from the word lambda.
But we can call it so we can say g of one comma to.
And I will return the sum three.
Of course since y is optional we can specify one positional argument and y will default to 10 and so
we get a sum of 11 of course you can get you know more complicated than that if you want.
You can make a function let's say F is equal to lambda and we're going to take in a positional arguments
then we're going to take in an arbitrary number of additional arguments positions then maybe we're going
to take a keyword only argument that's going to be mandatory because I'm not specifying a default for
it.
And then maybe an arbitrary number of keyword only arguments after that.
And what are we going to do with that.
Well you could manipulate this in different ways.
I'm just going to create a top all that's going to read on basically the values that were passed in.
Just so we can see that the values were successfully passed in.
So I'm going to return x as the first element of the top all then I want to return args right which
was the put the extra positional.
But of course ours is a list.
So I need to unpack it into the topic.
Well actually I don't have to unpack it.
I can leave it that way.
Let's let's do that and then Y and then we'll take twangs.
So if we do that we can now call f.
Now if I try and call f just by itself it's going to tell me.
No no you can't.
You're missing the argument x.
This function here whatever it is is missing one positional argument.
Well yeah we've got to specify X at the very least.
So let's put in a value of x a.
Well one maybe some extra arguments while we're at it but I don't have to write that it's optional.
But I'll put in a few maybe a and b.
Then we need this keyword.
It's mandatory and it's a keyword only argument really why because a hundred.
And then we can pass in a few extra ones as well.
Maybe a equals one and be close to right.
Or maybe equals 10 differentiated from the Y value.
And so there we go.
Right.
We have one and we have this top all that contains a and b that's what got packed into or Gupte got
collected into a I should say.
And then Kwan's was collected into this dictionary over here and why is 100.
Now of course if you want you can unpack things this way.
Right.
Unpack the bags and if you do that you just get the list this way.
So depends on how you want to use it.
Very often that's how we want to use it.
Now I can't unpack Quad's directly into a top hole but I could unpack it into a dictionary which is
kind of redundant since it's already a dictionary.
So I'm not going to do that.
But you can get.
And now you just get it this way.
So lambdas are functions the real functions just like anything else.
Just like any other function I should say.
OK so now let's look at how we might pass it.
Now as an argument to another function very often right we pass functions to other functions.
So let's take a look at a very simple example.
Let's write a function called apply func.
That's going to take two parameters x and f and f n is going with the function and X is going to be
a parameter.
So F-in we're going to call.
And we're going to pass it the parameter x.
So we expect to receive FM as a function that accepts at least 1 positional argument.
So now that we have that we can call apply func and maybe three.
And now we need to pass it a function that's callable with one argument.
Well we have that already right.
We have this Eskew this square function that we wrote up there.
So let's go ahead and just use that.
So we can call it this way.
And of course here I have to return not just evaluates to that again.
And here we have just print it of nine right because it ran Eskew passing it a value of three pass a
value of five.
I get 25.
But well if we didn't have this function ask you to find a ready Well we could get to it the same way
by using lambda.
So that's a 5 for lambda X which returns x square and we get the same result.
What happened is that instead of first creating the function up here and then passing it in to the Apply
func call we just created this function here on the fly.
That's a very common use case for lambda expressions.
When you want to do a quick function that you are passing to another function and you don't want to
define necessarily a full fledged function using def not that lambda is on full fledged But you don't
want to you know go ahead and do a def statement to create the function you just want to create this
very quickly.
It's useful for those kinds of cases.
We'll see some examples of that in the next video when we look at sorting and how we can use lambdas
for sorting.
OK.
Of course not.
We can use any other function we want.
Right.
We don't have to use a square.
We can define whatever the function we want to be.
Maybe it's a cube or whatever it is.
So five cube is 125.
Now we can get a little more sophisticated with this.
And this is going to tie into the whole thing with the arguments and the keyword arguments that we did
in the last section.
So let's do this let's say we want apply funk.
And what I really want to do is I'm going to pass in an arbitrary number of arguments an arbitrary number
of keyword arguments so this is very generic and then I want a function.
Now this is incorrect.
Do you see why.
Write we can't specify F-in after star star Kwan's that doesn't work.
We can't do that so we're going to have to define the function first.
That's going to be a mandatory positional argument that is going to be the function and whether we want
to do what we want to return the function applied to council and Kwan's.
Right now of course I'm calling a function so I cannot pass it.
I'm calling a function that's going to accept an arbitrary number of arguments an arbitrary number of
keyword arguments.
Right.
And this is a list.
This is actually a table and this is a dictionary.
Well we don't want that that's not what we can pass so we need to unpack.
And we need to unpack Quad's right.
So if that's all confusing go back to the previous section and take a look at.
When we were doing that.
So this is very generic right.
This is a very generic thing it's kind of useless in a way because you know we're essentially going
to call the function on all the hours in the Quad's we might as well call it directly but I just want
to illustrate something here.
So how do we use that function.
Well we can call apply funk and then we pass in the square function and we pass in three right.
So three is going to go into and xcuse going to go into ethane and it's going to call rescue of three
and return that value.
So we get nine.
So it was just as before.
But of course now we can get a little bit more fancy with this instead of putting the square function.
Maybe we're going to do Alamdar again.
We can do it this way.
Right.
So and 3 so we get the same thing.
If I don't dare.
Or just call apply phunk.
Right.
So here we go.
We created this function x squared anonymous function that returns the square of the argument and then
we pass and three is the argument.
Now we can of course get more complicated now because that apply phunk is very generic.
So maybe we do a lambda.
That takes two parameters and returns the sum.
So now we need to pass two parameters to apply phunk so that it gets passed to the lambda and we get
that we get a result of three because we can also get even more complicated.
Maybe we're going to do something like this.
We're going to say Lander's going to take a single positional.
No more positional than a mandatory P-word only argument is going to return also x plus y.
So now we have to specify one and then y equals to right or Winkle's 20 gets to keep it different.
And as you can see that works as expected y goes into quads one goes into ons and then we call this
lambda passing it the arms which was 1 and the quads which was white was 20.
We can also do this apply phunk let's do Alamdar that only takes basically our positional arguments.
Arbitrary number of them and what are they going to do.
It's going to return to some of those arguments.
Right.
So that's the Lamda that's going to sum up.
And we're going to pass now an arbitrary number of positional arguments to our apply phunk let's say
1 2 3 4 5.
So now we're going to sum that up and we get 15.
Now of course you didn't have to do it using Alamdar because remember what does apply phunk do.
It takes a function and applies it to the parameters that are passed.
So we could do this we could say apply phunk we're going to take the function itself and then one two
three four five.
Now that's not going to work because some doesn't take on some expects a list or a tadpole or something
like that.
So let's create the topple and two and that's how we get the same thing right.
Of course you can also just do this
right.
And we get the same thing as well.
But again I just want to show you how you can write your lambdas right.
They can be very powerful expressions and you can pass and then the arbitrary number of arguments but
that's only because we're calling this apply phunk that handles an arbitrary number of arguments.
All right.
So thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.